In what ways have you seen people treat others who are different from them?
When I was at school, a common viewpoint of my schoolmates was that you should be accepting of whatever lifestyle someone chooses to lead.
Teachers would encourage us to support those with different sexual orientations.
In my final year of high school, a new teacher arrived.
He was different. He came from the capital and I lived in a small town.
He had spent many years at university and didn't believe in God.
On social media, it was very common to see extreme viewpoints about different lifestyles.
I often saw comments attacking others for their lifestyles.
The teacher had a very different personality. He seemed to like attacking the students and putting them on the spot.
He would ask probing questions about controversial topics in class and even made comments to the class like the people from here aren't made for learning.
Of course, the students didn't react very well. Many of them refused to attend his classes or if they did, they refused to speak to him during the class.
I remember them saying, I'm not going to talk with that atheist.
I remember that some classmates would say to me, don't Jehovah's Witnesses hate gay people?
It seemed like many students assumed that we must have an extreme viewpoint and that we would completely reject those who don't conform to our beliefs.
What helped you get the Bible's viewpoint?
My parents always helped me to have a balanced viewpoint.
As I was growing up, they helped me understand that even though we completely reject certain conduct, we don't hate the person who practices it.
I learned a lot from my mom's example. She used to work at a beauty salon and I saw how she was always kind to others she worked with, regardless of their sexual orientation.
I thought of Jesus' example, how he shared the message with everyone, no matter their thinking or background.
Jesus took the time to talk with them, no matter who they were or what others thought of them.
I love the scripture at Matthew 5.45, where it says that Jehovah makes the sunshine and the rainfall on all people.
This is an expression of his love, to provide what each person needs, no matter who they are.
As I was thinking about Jesus' example, I remembered his words recorded at Matthew, where he tells us that, what you want men to do to you, you also must do to them.
This helped me to think about how I should act around my teacher.
It made me treat him differently.
I mean, if Jehovah, the Almighty God, is kind, good, and respectful toward all, why shouldn't I be?
And that would include those whose conduct I don't agree with.
Jehovah has given us the best way to show our love for our neighbor by helping them to come to know him.
What has been the outcome of applying Bible principles?
At my previous job, I worked at a hotel where there was a waiter who was gay.
Some of his coworkers would treat him poorly.
So I made sure I didn't join in with them and treated him like I would anyone else.
I was able to have conversations with my teacher about the Bible and share scriptures with him.
He was impressed by what the Bible had to say on scientific matters and said he wanted to find out more.
One day, the waiter came up to me and thanked me for being different from the others in the way I treated him.
Even some of the other waiters asked me why I was like that.
This opened up the opportunity to explain that I tried to apply Bible principles in my life, including how I treat others.
There was a noticeable change in the teacher as the school year went on.
He told me that he was impressed by my conduct and because I had spoken with him when none of the other students would.
His classes became so much better because he started to be nicer to his students.
Little by little, the students returned to class.
And by the end of the year, it had become one of the classes that we enjoyed the most.
When I think about the way that Jehovah treats people and how he gives everyone a chance to learn about him, I'm drawn to him even more.